---
layout: page
parent: Release notes
title: "4.13"
nav_order: 15
---

# ACAP version 4.13 – March 4, 2024

> **ACAP Computer Vision SDK delay**
>
> In AXIS OS 11.9 ACAP Computer Vision SDK applications built with ACAP
> Computer Vision SDK 1.12 or earlier that has a direct or indirect dependency
> on library libvdostream.so, as instructed in setup of various examples in
> [acap-computer-vision-sdk-examples](https://github.com/AxisCommunications/acap-computer-vision-sdk-examples)
> , will get a runtime error.
> Applications that were run successfully on AXIS OS 11.8 still require an
> update to be compatible with 11.9 and future versions.
>
> An updated ACAP Computer Vision SDK is currently being worked on and more
> information will come.

## Overview

The release contains:

- [ACAP Native SDK 1.13](#acap-native-sdk)
- [Docker Compose ACAP 1.3.1](https://github.com/AxisCommunications/docker-compose-acap/tree/1.3.1)
  ([Release notes](https://github.com/AxisCommunications/docker-compose-acap/releases/tag/1.3.1))

Code examples:

- [Code examples ACAP Native SDK v1.13](https://github.com/AxisCommunications/acap-native-sdk-examples/tree/v1.13)
  ([Release notes](https://github.com/AxisCommunications/acap-native-sdk-examples/releases/tag/v1.13))

Device Software:

- Minimum [AXIS OS](https://www.axis.com/support/device-software) version: 11.9

### New features

- Manifest schema [1.6.0](../develop/manifest-schemas/schema-field-descriptions-v1.6.0):
  - Add support for characters `$` and `\` in `apiPath` of the reverse proxy
    configuration.

    ```json
    "acapPackageConf": {
      "configuration": {
        "reverseProxy": [
          {
             "apiPath": "config/.+\\.cgi$",
             "target": "http://localhost:4567",
             "access": "admin"
         }
        ]
      }
    }
    ```

  - Add optional field `$schema` that can point out a manifest schema to use
    for manifest validation and auto-completion. See how this can be done in
    [Setting up Visual Studio Code](../develop/setting-up-visual-studio-code.md#manifest-validation).
  - Allow strings in `requiredMethods` and `conditionalMethods` under `dbus` to contain `-`.

     ```json
     "resources": {
       "dbus": {
         "requiredMethods": [
           "com.axis.policykit-cert.certset.getpath"
         ],
         "conditionalMethods": [
           "com.axis.policykit-cert.*"
         ]
        }
     }
     ```

### New tutorials and documentation

- A guide on how to create a Yolov5 model for Artpec-8 have been added to the [Axis model zoo](https://github.com/AxisCommunications/axis-model-zoo/blob/main/docs/yolov5-on-artpec8.md) repository.
- Examples of object detection models have been added to the [Axis model zoo](https://github.com/AxisCommunications/axis-model-zoo)
- A new section [User and group](../develop/application-project-structure#user-and-group) has been added to the documentation and explains **dynamic users** which is the recommended user to use.
- A new section [Computer vision on device](../computer-vision-on-device/) has been added to the documentation, giving more insight into the computer vision capabilities and nuances of different Axis devices.

## ACAP Native SDK

Supported architectures:

- armv7hf and aarch64, see [images on Docker Hub](https://hub.docker.com/r/axisecp/acap-native-sdk)

### Compatibility

Supported products:

- All products with chipsets: ARTPEC-8, ARTPEC-7, ARTPEC-6, CV25, i.MX 6SoloX, i.MX 6ULL, S5L and S5.

See also [compatibility information](../axis-devices-and-compatibility).

### Fixes

- A bug found in AXIS OS 11.8 where VAPIX APIs with anonymous access couldn't
  be accessed from an ACAP application has been fixed in AXIS OS 11.9.

### Updates

- The following APIs have been added to the ACAP Native SDK:
  - [Axparameter API](../api/native-sdk-api.md#axparameter-api) Example written
    in C that demonstrates how to manage application-defined parameters,
    allowing you to add, remove, set, get, and register callback functions for
    parameter value updates.
  - [Metadata Broker API](../api/native-sdk-api.md#metadata-broker-api) -
    Example written in C that shows how to consume metadata stream Analytics
    Scene Description.
- The feature [VAPIX access for ACAP
  applications](../develop/VAPIX-access-for-ACAP-applications) has two updates:
  - The D-Bus API moved from **Beta** to **General Availability (GA)** and is from AXIS OS 11.9 considered stable.
  - An example called [vapix](https://github.com/AxisCommunications/acap-native-sdk-examples/tree/main/vapix) has been added to acap-native-sdk-examples. The example retrieves VAPIX credentials over D-Bus and makes calls to an VAPIX API.

### APIs supported in this release

API                  | Chip
:--                  | :--
Video capture API    | ARTPEC-8, ARTPEC-7, ARTPEC-6, CV25, S5L, S5
Machine learning API | ARTPEC-8, ARTPEC-7, CV25, S5L
Overlay API          | ARTPEC-8, ARTPEC-7, ARTPEC-6
Cairo                | ARTPEC-8, ARTPEC-7, ARTPEC-6
OpenCL               | ARTPEC-8, ARTPEC-7
Event API            | ARTPEC-8, ARTPEC-7, ARTPEC-6, CV25, i.MX 6SoloX, i.MX 6ULL, S5L, S5
License Key API      | ARTPEC-8, ARTPEC-7, ARTPEC-6, CV25, i.MX 6SoloX, i.MX 6ULL, S5L, S5
FastCGI              | ARTPEC-8, ARTPEC-7, CV25, i.MX 6SoloX, i.MX 6ULL
Edge storage API     | ARTPEC-8, ARTPEC-7, ARTPEC-6, CV25, i.MX 6SoloX, i.MX 6ULL, S5L, S5
Serial port API      | ARTPEC-8, ARTPEC-7
Axparameter API      | ARTPEC-8, ARTPEC-7, ARTPEC-6, CV25, i.MX 6SoloX, i.MX 6ULL, S5L, S5
Metadata Broker API  | ARTPEC-8, ARTPEC-7, CV25

Special API          | Chip
:--                  | :--
VAPIX APIs           | ARTPEC-8, ARTPEC-7, ARTPEC-6, CV25, i.MX 6SoloX, i.MX 6ULL, S5L, S5
